After being frustrated by other political tests, I tried to make my own compass test, but found myself baffled by the rigid limitations. It was impossible to map out a large ideological terrain. I tried changing what each axis means, I tried adding dimensions, but nothing seemed to work. Then, I got the idea for this test. Why not map political positions as leaves of a tree instead of dimensions in a space?

Before making this test, I started on paper and failed many times. Then one day, I began to make a lua file containing an ideological tree that was beginning to make sense. The current version of this tree is visible in the javascript source code, which is at:

https://github.com/44100hertz/44100hertz.github.io/

Most political quizzes try to reduce your politics down to quantitative measures such as "progressive/conservative", "central/decentral", etc. Fairly basic, they always ask the same set questions, and they compress your beliefs into a series of positions on various axes. People turn some number of these axis values into an N-dimensional space, divided into ideologies. In the 2-dimensional political compass, there are 4 ideologies implied by its quadrants, which are colored respectively. My question is this: where on the compass is the division between Marxists and non-Marxists? Where is the line between anarchists and non-anarchists? There are no good answers to these questions, because the political compass is too reductive. Despite its reductive nature, the political compass still maps out the contradictory ideology of anarcho-capitalism. Subtracting dimensions makes these quizzes even less insightful, and adding dimensions exponentially increases the number of contradictory positions to be occupied. What does it mean to be a "centrist marxist" or an "eco-capitalist"?

I began to ask myself what the function of political tests should be. Test takers consume the test to get apparent insight into themselves, which has some social value much like a personality test. There is also a dialogue between the test writer and the test taker. While taking the test, the test taker gets to solve problems, to feel like someone cares about their opinion, and maybe even to try to get a grasp on political issues through the understanding of the test writer. The test taker takes on the role of a student or subject, and the test writer takes on the role of a teacher or an analyst. Because I see this relationship, I have made a point of asking for feedback about the test, and being responsive to the feedback that I get.

Clearly there is a cultural effect to the compass, but is it rational? Take for example the mainstream political compass, which has a vertical axis of libertarian/authoritarian. Our assumptions about that axis are different than the corresponding quiz questions. People associate gay issues with the left-right axis, correct? In the political compass, the question of legalizing gay marriage actually determines the vertical axis. To ban gay marriage is considered authoritarian by the test, but left or right by most people. Which way should it go?

I have watched people struggle with the results from political tests. Some create a false identity based on the test results, or engage sectarianism against people they believe would have a different test position. Others wonder why they got a result that doesn't seem to reflect their views, and may think that it means they should convert to the ideology they recieve.

Sometimes confusion is because the test writer has a political bias. Even if the test is intended to be neutral, an unintended bias toward liberal thinking is present, causing these tests to stray from materialism and class analysis that I consider key elements of politics. The test writer imparts this bias onto the test taker, and the nature of the bias is not an obvious fact of the quiz. In this quiz, I make my bias and intent very obvious fact. This gives the test taker a clear idea of what they are signing up for. My agenda is to educate people about Marxism-Leninism, it is crystal clear.

Instead of a linear structure, I use a decision tree structure, always attempting to ask the most relevant question based on the previous answer. By doing so, I map out the terrain of political belief as a series of exclusive separations. It puts limits on what I am able to categorize, but compared to the N-dimensional space of the political compass and slider, it has far less room for contradictory ideas and the irrelevant questions behind them. I also combat the rigidity of the tree structure by having a 'back' button, which allows the user to explore different ideological possibilities instead of feeling that the test has ended and the categorization is complete.

The tree is still quite rigid in its own way, but I believe that it is superior to other varieties of test because it is able to cover a wider range of ideology in fewer questions, and with fewer contradictory results. I am hoping that this test can give a new paragidm and a fresh outlook on what political tests in general. I hope that people who are interested enough to read this document consider experimenting with tests of their own. It would be as easy as copying my webpage and altering the decision tree.
